# CS-360FinalProject
Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
For this class, I was required to choose 1 of 3 choices to design an app. I chose to design a weight tracking app that had to include, a database with 3 tables, an initial login/register screen, a screen displaying a history of daily weights, a mechanism to add your daily weight journey, a mechanism to set a goal weight, and once a goal weight is reached, to notify the user of their accomplishment. The user needs this app was designed to address were wanting to track your weight, in a weight where you can monitor your journey and see where the ups and downs are of your journey. 

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The screens that were necessary were the initial login/register screen which supports any user logging in or registering a login for the first time, the home screen which allows for the input and deletion of daily weight input while tracking your goal weight, and a permissions page that just features a button to prompt about the permissions. I tried to make the design for the pages simple, and readable. Although, the design of the visual features of the app are still underveloped, I spent most of my time developing the functionality of it and making sure it worked correctly. The design of the functional features were successful, and the visual features definetely still need some work especially with the idea of having a theme and keep consistent with that theme across the app. 

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I approached the process of coding my app by getting the basic visual features set with everything that was needed to get the app and then moved to the functionality. I wanted to create an app that worked in the most crucial parts before making visually appealing application. I would start with a page, for example the register/login screen, and focus on completing all functionality with it including error checking, and making sure everything works as intended before moving onto the next sequential screen. 

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
A lot of testing. I thought of anything that could have caused an issue, for example trying to register a new account but the namne already exists, trying to type letters into the weight input, etc. This process is so important because having an app with every feature that anyone could ever want doesn't matter if it doesn't work. Especially if you're trying to monetize an app in the future, people aren't going to want to invest in an application that doesn't work. 

Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
I had to innovate to overcome my initial plan for some initial setup for a new account. I initially wanted to on a new account register, have a pop up to input your initial goal weight for the app, just so before you input your first daily weight, you already had a goal weight set. 
In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I'd say the java code from the home page of the app was pretty successful. I felt like it was designed well, and is stable. I know there are still areas where I could make things more efficient but I feel like it is the most successful page of them all. 
